Normalization
-------------

What is normalization

Process/series of steps done when large databases are to be evolved using software 
engineering.
each process gives a output as a Normal Form.
1NF
2NF
3NF
4NF
BCNF
DKNF
Organise
Tables---relation
column---attributes
rows-----tuples
Why?
It is done to remove the duplication/redundancy in the database.

How?
Identifying the anomalies---problems 
Insertion---- Unable to insert data because the data is less/inadequate.
Joining
Student-Group: he is alloted the technology
Insert the student data in the trainee table.

Trainee
ID Name Qual      Assigned_Group
 1  a    btech    Azure
 2  b    btech    

Deletion----Unable to delete the data becoz if a particular data is deleted it may delete 
some more data as the condition specified is satisfied by the data.
Results in unnecessary data loss.

Trainee
 Name Qual      Assigned_Group
   a    btech    Azure
   b    btech    


Updation---Unable to update the data becoz if a particular data is updated it may delete 
some more data as the condition specified is satisfied by the data.
Results in wrong data.

Trainee
 Name Qual      Assigned_Group
   a    btech    Azure
   b    btech    


1NF---> A table/relation must be having only single values in single columns/attributes
2NF--->A relation is said to be in 2nf if and only if it is in 1nf and all non-key attributes are fully functionally dependent on the primary key.
3NF----A relation is said to be in 3nf if and only if it is in 2nf and no transition dependency exists.
BCNF(Boyce Codd Normal form)----A relation is said to be in BCNF if and only if it is in 3nf.
4NF----A relation is said to be in 4nf if and only if it is in 3nf and it is in BCNF form and has no multivalued dependency
5NF---A relation is said to be in 5nf if and only if it is in 5nf and doesnot contain any join dependency
DKNF(Domain Key normal form)---it contains no other constraints other than domain contraints and key contraints.


Transitive----> 3 attributes
				A B C----> A is dependent on C
A is dependent on B
B is dependent on C
  A         B        C
Bookname  author  ageAuthor
book1      A        45
book2      B        60
book3      A        45


Author doesnot depend on Book

bookname depends on Author=A depends on B
Author and ageAuthor =B depends on C

Functional---> maintain the quality of data. (->)
Emp
Empno   Name   City    salary
 1       a      Pune    10k
2        b      mumbai  20k
 3       c      bangalore 30k

Name, city and salary depends on Empno.


